We created a game where the objective is to physically reenact different poses using motion tracking software. Given a position displayed on a screen, the player must perform the pose to score points before a set time passes. These positions take advantage of the change in gravity to use positions that would otherwise be impossible. Our game requires flexibility and coordination to win, targeting an astronaut's physical wellbeing through exercising and stretching several muscle groups. Additionally, our timed environment targets cardio by cycling through several positions rapidly. We imagine that additional physical constraints can be implemented to increase the effect on muscle strain such as elastics or weights.
Our secondary objective was to make a game that is both fun and competitive. Some poses are difficult, some are wacky, and having other members competing for the best score can improve team morale and mental wellbeing.
Our project is built using a combination of Java and Python. For the motion tracking, we are using the OpenCV library to track and grab the points of the player’s joints through a webcam. Our game UI runs on the Java swing framework, using gradle as our build tool. From our research on exercising in space, we hoped to create a game that improves physical wellbeing by exercising a wide range of muscles and improves cardio. We also wanted to have a game that can be understood through language barriers. Our goals aside from the hackathon were focused on learning and improving our technical coding skills, alongside integrating new hardware and software tools(like OpenCV). We had originally designed this project through c++ to be implemented on a raspberry pi3B, however we will be demoing our finished product on a laptop.
